Find Welcome Back in this video we're looking at what is a virtual an.
And we're also going to be creating our next app when we stole Python.
We get something like this.
Let's say we open by chairman then we create a new project.
You get something like this here.
It asks us for a location which is where our project should be where the files of the project should
be in our system and that's fine that's normal and then it also asks us for an interpreter.
And in the past all we've done was select pite and 3.5 there from the list.
In this video I wanted to talk to you about virtual NVS and what virtual games are and why we should
use them.
Let's say we choose Python 3.5.
This is the installation that we've got in our system the python that we've downloaded and installed
.
And whenever we run a python app we can run it with this python 3.5 interpreter which is the python
that we've installed.
If you're on Mac you've also got Python 2.7 installed and that's an older version of python and you
can have both installed side by side because the name is different.
If both of them were called Python then you'd have a problem because the system would know which one
to use.
In my case I have three of them.
Python 2.6 and 2.7 and Python 3.5.
And here we also have another one which has a small v.
There you can see that very clearly there is a green V then or the bottom.
And this is a virtual end.
Now the reason why virtual ends exist is because if you create say 10 projects in Python and in all
of them you use this python 3.5 version.
This program here and each project has different libraries that you're using a library is just some
code that somebody else has written that you can import into your program and use it in your program
.
Be easier if you create 10 projects with different libraries in each.
Then this interpreter here this point of 3.5 ends up having to take into account all of those liberties
and that's fine up until the point that you need two versions of the same library.
So for example you create a project today and you use the psycho to library and you create your project
using the current version or psycho-BS you to like we're going to be doing and then two years down the
line you and you create another project using psycho OPG too.
But with the version two years down the line when you go back and run the old project that you create
today it would no longer work because you've updated the library and the old project no longer works
.
Say if they changed something in the library so what to do is create a virtual environment.
This is re-installed Python essentially with a different name and use that installation only for one
project.
Then you can install your libraries then you can install psycho puji to them for example and when in
two years on the line you create a new project you create a new virtual environment for it with no libraries
and you can install the new version of Cyclopes G2 on that other virtual environment.
And it does not affect your other environment.
That is what a virtual and is just another installation of Python that you install somewhere else and
that you only use for one project although you can use it for many if you really want but it's not advised
so you use it for one project and therefore it allows you to make sure that the libraries don't conflict
with other installations.
They're essentially the reason why these things exist.
So with that said that's where a virtual environment is.
And now we're going to be creating our project once again.
If you do not have the and Enterprise Edition the I'm not really sure what it's called a vision of a
pie chum.
Then you will only see pure python if you have the community edition.
You'll only see pure python if you have the professional edition.
That's what it called then you may see all these things here or even more.
Nevertheless we're going to use pure Python and then we're going to have to choose the location of our
project.
So I'm going to go into this folder and create a new folder for it and it's going to be intro to databases
for example.
Again you can call it whatever you want.
And then inside that folder I'm going to create another folder called Project and this is going to be
the project files the python files.
And the reason why I'm doing that is because inside this intro to databases folder I'm going to create
a virtual end that you can do them by clicking these three dots here and pressing create virtual length
and then the place where we're going to be putting this virtual limb.
This location is going to be inside into two databases.
So let's go then documents personal causes Python progress into the databases.
But instead of in project I'm going to put it inside a folder called then for virtual And this is the
normal naming convention for virtual environments.
They're always usually called then.
OK.
And then we are going to make sure that the base interpreter is python 3.5 and that just means that
this virtual environment is also going to be running Python 3.5 as opposed to a different version.
Finally let's press OK.
And then that's installing some of the stuff that we need in Python.
And we are going to be going into the next video momentarily as soon as it is completed where we're
going to be explaining how we can install packages in Python.
OK.
That's the virtual environment created.
Now we can just click on Create project and then as usual we get this project here that we know and
love already.
Now that we've got this virtual environment created we can go into pikeman preferences Clozaril this
stuff and go to the project and verify that psycho G-2 is installed in this case because I've just created
this python installation this virtual and Cyclopedia 2 is not here.
So what we have to do is first of all update set up tools and we all going to double click on it and
then I'm going to select a set of tools and press install.
And that is going to update set up tools to the latest version.
If it does manage that we go
now.
So and then we will try and remember to specify the version so we want to install the latest version
and then install package there.
I tend to do this with a terminal as opposed to via PI John but this is the easier way to do it OK now
that those two are installed we can press on the plus sign again and then go to psycho PGE 2.
Now you can only do this if you are on Mac so let's press that or on Linux and then that will be installed
.
If you are on Windows then you need to run the commands as we saw them in the last couple of videos
So the next video is going to be going into how to install psycho-BS due to Windows in the virtual environment
.
If you're not on Windows you can entirely skip the next video and just go on to the next one after that
This is psychobilly to install the now in your virtual environment.
Let's go into windows in the next video and install it there.
And like I said if you are in Windows just go into the next video and see the